Sample Resumes

First-Year Resume Sample

First Name Last Name
Room 123 MIT Dorm, 987 Institute Drive · Cambridge, MA 02139 · Phone: 617-xxx-xxxx · Email: Freshman@mit.edu

Education

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Candidate for Bachelor of Science in Biology Coursework includes: Calculus, Electricity and Magnetism.
Southtown High School Valedictorian in class of 128 students; SAT: 2260, ACT: 33 Relevant Courses: AP Calculus, AP Statistics, AP Biology.

Cambridge, MA June 2019
Southtown, NS May 2015

Leadership Experience

MIT Undergraduate Giving Campaign

Cambridge, MA

Class of 2019 Co-Chair

November 2015

·Trained 12 members from the freshman class in fundraising activities, such as how to ask for a

donation and how to properly document a donation.

·Organized a week-long schedule for the 12 members and myself to work at a booth to ask for

donations.

·Achieved 31% participation within the freshman class, higher than that of the sophomores and

juniors.

·Raised $1,250 from the freshman class for the MIT Public Service Center.

High School Newspaper

Southtown, NS

Chief Editor

August 2014-May 2015

·Proofread each article and authored two to three articles per issue.

·Printed one 24-page newspaper per month for 10 months.

·Oversaw staff of 14 students. Answered questions regarding articles and page design.

Assistant Editor

August 2012-May 2013

Sports Editor

August 2011-May 2012

Relay For Life

W. Southtown, NS

Team Captain

April 2013

·Organized a team of 15 students for the Relay for Life.

·Coordinated fund-raising efforts through the Beta Club, an organization for students with all A's.

·Raised $500 for cancer research.

Work Experience

Area Supermarkets

W. Southtown, NS

Clerk and Bagger

January 2013-May 2013

·Provided customer service to 100+ people per day. Bagged groceries and received cashier training.

Taco Bell

W. Southtown, NS

Team Member

June 2012-January 2013

·Received cashier and food handling training, worked in a fast-paced environment, and

experienced assembly-line teamwork. Served 100+ people per day.

Activities & Awards

MIT Varsity Track & Field Team Team Member, Pole Vaulting.

September 2015-Present

High School Varsity Athletics

August 2011-May 2015

Track and Field, Captain; Football, Team Member; Wrestling, Team Member.

STAR Student Award

March 2014

Awarded to the senior from each high school in Newstate with the highest SAT score.

Havoline Scholar Athlete Award

December 2013

P resented by The National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame, Inc. to the top 40 scholar

athletes in the state of Newstate.

Skills

Computer: Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint Carpentry: Framing, Masonry, Household Electrical Wiring, Flooring, Roofing, Plumbing.

As a first-year undergrad you can include GPA N/A on your resume until you receive an official MIT GPA (typically at the end of your second semester).

First-Year Resume Sample

University Address 300 Memorial Drive Cambridge, MA 02139

MIT STUDENT

Home Address 4000 Home St. Hometown, NY 12345

EDUCATION

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Class of 2019

-Candidate for Bachelor's in Managerial Science with a Concentration in Finance

Cambridge, MA

-SAT: 2160, GPA N/A

-Current Coursework: Differential Equations, Macroeconomics, Biology, Freshmen/Alumni Summer Internship Program

(F/ASIP)

-Relevant Courses: Multivariable Calculus, AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, AP Biology

LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCES
UROP-Diabetes Management Project Research Assistant
-Research different areas of diabetes management including aspects in both technology and lifestyle -Analyze qualitatively and quantitatively information from patient surveys

February 2016-Present Cambridge, MA

GRT Selection Committee Student Member
-Collaborate with 15 team members to dictate procedure on how to pick the next GRT -Conduct behavioral interviews for the candidates -Vote on which candidates will be considered

February 2016-Present Cambridge, MA

Procrastibaking Baking Club

November 2015-Present

Treasurer

Cambridge, MA

-Manage approximately $1,100 in club funds and reimburses the President's expenses

-Responsible for budgeting multiple club events, which provide customer satisfaction to all 45 participants

Maseeh Hall Executive Committee

December 2015-Present

Floor 2 Representative

Cambridge, MA

-Manage a $1,000 budget to put on events such as "study-breaks", social events, which include free food to 30 people and time to

take a break from work

-Provide for the maintenance of 150 floor members' needs by both buying products that are necessary for the floor and helping

students with any personal problems

Robotics/Engineering Club

September 2012-June 2015

VP of Community Relations, Treasurer, Build Team Member

Seaford, NY

-Raised $9,000 by pitching advertising packages to local businesses in order to fund the team

-Presented projects to judges, which helped win the All Star Rookie Award and the Highest Seeded Rookie Award, resulting in the

team going to Worlds

-Coached new members on how to present themselves to businesses and judges

WORK EXPERIENCE

MIT Admissions Representative

September 2015- Present

Student Representative

Cambridge, MA

-Address student's concerns about the application process through the phone and email, answering 100 questions per shift when

deadlines are approaching

-Create expense reports to reimburse admissions counselors for their business expenses

Tarallo's Pizzeria

September 2014-August 2015

Counter Position

Seaford, NY

-Worked as a cashier; Received food, phone, and cleaning training, worked in a fast-paced environment, while keeping impatient

and hungry customers calm

SKILLS/INTERESTS
Computer: Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Basic Java Language: Fluent in reading and writing Spanish, Proficient in Speaking Spanish Interests: Dancing, Lifting Weights, Trying different types of food

Undergraduate Resume Sample

School Address: XXX Memorial Dr. Cambridge, MA 02139

Jane Doe
someone@mit.edu
(XXX) XXX-XXXX

Home Address: Someplace, MA

Education

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTEOFTECHNOLOGY (M.I.T.)

CAMBRIDGE, MA

Candidate for B.S. in Biology, GPA: 4.6/5.0

20XX

· Concentration in Management at Sloan Business School and Minor in Brain and Cognitive Sciences.

·Authored 5 publications in the MIT Undergraduate Research Journal and other peer-reviewed journals.

· R elevant Coursework: Finance Theory, Economics of the Health Care Industry, Strategic Decision-Making in Life

Sciences, Building a Biomedical Business, Cancer Genetics and Therapies, Cellular Neurobiology, Immunology.

Experience

PUTNAM ASSOCIATES

BURLINGTON, MA

Analyst

20XX

· E valuated in 6-member team whether client's marketing strategy for its $100M organ transplant drug effectively

targets key decision-makers in transplant community. Client implemented proposed improvements in message

content and delivery, designed to increase prescriptions for product by nearly 30%.

· M anaged recruitment and interviewing process of 98 physicians to obtain primary data for marketing case. Analyzed

data from interviews and secondary research in Excel/Access. Prepared PowerPoint deck for presentation to client.

· A nalyzed past product switches from predecessor to successor drugs for independent project. Presented recommendations

for future drug launches. Developed a database providing key criteria for launching various types of drugs.

MIT PROGRAMS ON THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY

CAMBRIDGE, MA

Health Economics Research Assistant, Sloan Business School

20XX

· D esigned, created, and tested a strategic model for the pharmaceutical industry that analyzes safety, efficacy,

and economics to forecast (prior to clinical trials) which drugs will succeed on the market. Early elimination of

inadequate drugs will significantly reduce the $800M spent to successfully launch a drug.

MERCK & CO., INC.

RAHWAY, NJ

Pharmaceutical Laboratory Research Assistant, Infectious Disease Department

20XX

· Identified deficiencies in Type 2 Diabetes drugs on the market and screened chemicals on new cellular targets to

develop an efficient drug without these shortcomings. Drug predicted to obtain substantially greater market share in

the $14B oral Type 2 Diabetes drug market compared to competitors.

MIT CENTER FOR CANCER RESEARCH

CAMBRIDGE, MA

Academic Laboratory Research Assistant, Housman Laboratory

20XX - 20XX

· D eveloped a product to recognize activity of a cancer-causing gene, aiding in discovery of drug for brain cancer.

Engaged in all stages of product development: identification of market need, engineering of product, collaborating

with industry for testing, production, and marketing of final drug.

· D esigned a new sequencing technique that refines a common laboratory protocol. New procedure increases

efficiency by 50% on average, reducing processing time by 25%, and creating more usable biological end-product.

Leadership

MARCH OF DIMES BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION

BOSTON, MA

Director of Massachusetts Youth Public Affairs

20XX - Present

· L obbied legislators to encourage federal, Massachusetts, and California governments to develop public policies to

improve the health of women. Introduced and promoted 10 Senate Bills, 4 of which have been approved thus far.

·Represented Foundation on the Massachusetts State Public Affairs Committee.

·Organized conferences and fundraisers as a volunteer for the past 7 years (1998-Present).

JOURNAL OF YOUNG INVESTIGATORS

CAMBRIDGE, MA

Story Editor and Science Journalist

20XX - Present

·Managed 25 science journalists, delegated writing and editing tasks, and chose articles to print in monthly journal.

·Created daily digests about current science news, distributed to all science journalists.

SCIENCE & ENGINEERING BUSINESS CLUB

CAMBRIDGE, MA

Consulting Focus Group Organizing Committee

20XX - Present

·Organized 6 campus-wide information session to educate students about careers in consulting and law.

·Selected and worked closely with speakers from diverse occupational backgrounds.

Awards & Interests

·Robert C. Byrd Scholarship, awarded to top 1% of U.S. students for academic excellence. ·Rensselaer Medal, awarded to top 20,000 students worldwide for achievements in mathematics and science. ·Interest in track & field, travel, photography, and oncology.

Undergraduate Resume Sample

345 Infinity Drive Cambridge, MA 02139

Matha Maddox
matha@mit.edu 617-XXX-XXXX

My Street My City, My Country

EDUCATION

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Cambridge, MA

·Candidate for a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics with Computer Science

June 2013

·Candidate for a minor in Management

GPA: 4.6/5.0

·Relevant Coursework: Probability and Statistics, Algebra, Analysis, Discrete Math, Managerial Psychology Laboratory

EXPERIENCE

Telecommunications Company

Paris, France

Operations Research Analyst

June 2010 ­ Present

·Assessed financial risks involved with participating in online advertising-space exchanges

·Devised bidding policies for auctions at the exchanges that led to victories three times out of five and built mathematical models

around these policies to increase the company's margin from online ad-spaces by 5%

MIT Sloan School of Management

Cambridge, MA

Undergraduate Researcher

June 2010 ­ October 2010

·Conducted experimental prediction markets with human and artificial intelligence to find the best tools to predict future events such as

election-results or the stock market

·Developed an experiment-procedure online that reduced bias by eliminating involvement of the experimenter and saved two hours

and $200 per experiment

MIT Center for Collective Intelligence

Cambridge, MA

Undergraduate Researcher

June 2010 ­ October 2010

·Conducted individual and group IQ/EQ tests on human subjects to formulate ways to measure and predict the performance of

individuals working as part of a team and the efficacy of the team dynamic

·Saved four hours of experiment-time per day by redesigning the experiment-procedure so that each experiment could be held with

three fewer researchers and up to six experiments could be held at the same time

MIT Tech Callers

Cambridge, MA

Caller

February 2010 ­ June 2010

·Communicated with MIT alumni on behalf of the MIT Alumni Association and raised $5,000 in donations

LEADERSHIP
MIT Student Cultural Association Treasurer ·Managed $10,000 worth of finances for a group of 400 students and raised $3,000 in funds for their events ·Created an online system for reimbursements that made the process faster and reduced paperwork

Cambridge, MA May 2010 ­ Present

MIT Undergraduate Association

Cambridge, MA

Member of Committee on Student Life

February 2011 ­ Present

·Organized a week long convention of 3,000 students with activities geared towards improving health on campus

·Linked 376 freshmen to upperclassmen with similar career objectives in a one-on-one mentoring relationship

MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives

Milan, Italy and Cambridge, MA

Advisor and Teacher

September 2010 ­ March 2011

·Taught Mathematics and Physics to 500 high school students in Italy and advised teachers on inexpensive ways of making their

lessons interactive that helped each school save up to $1300 a year

·Worked with a group of 10 teachers and five principals from high-schools in Italy to prepare a report for the Italian Ministry of

Education on how to make the education-system in Italy more hands-on and technology-oriented

The XYZ Newpress

My City, Country

Founder and Editor

October 2006 ­ May 2008

·Led a staff of 25 high-school students to develop the first English newspaper to be printed and distributed in My Country

· Converted it to a trilingual newspaper and increased profitability by 25% in two years

SKILLS
Languages: Fluent - French and Native - Hindi Software: LATEX, GLPK, Microsoft Office Activities: Member-Delta Psi Fraternity, Choreographer - MIT Dance Troupe, Journalist -The Tech

Design Resume Sample

Global Resume Sample

MIT Student
522 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215 · 333-111-2222 · travelingstudent@mit.edu

EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology · B S in Biological Engineering, GPA: 4.9/5 · Sabanci Freshman Scholar, awarded visit to Sabanci University in Istanbul (2014) · F oreign study at Universidad Politécnica de Madrid in Biotechnology (Spring 2015)

2012-2016 Cambridge, MA

Collège Saint-Remacle à Stavelot · A chieved Grande Distinction during foreign exchange in French-speaking Belgium

2011-2012 Stavelot, Belgium

Southern Lehigh High School · S ix week foreign exchange in Röhrnbach, Germany (Summer 2009)
EXPERIENCE
Undergraduate Researcher in Weiss Lab, MIT Synthetic Biology Center · C reate platform for biosensor development based on B-cell receptor · A warded provisional patent (2014) · P resented poster at 2015 BioMAN Summit (Cell & Gene Therapy Manufacturing) · A dvisor for MIT iGEM 2015 team

2007-2011 Center Valley, PA
Dec 2014 - Present Cambridge, MA

Intern in Rojas Lab (Instituto de Salud Carlos III) · Investigated role of Sur8 in nucleus by verifying binding to potential partners · A nalyzed proteomics & microarray data to examine effects of Spry2 mutations

Mar 2015 - Jun 2015 Madrid, Spain

International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Participant · D eveloped genetic circuit for Alzheimer's disease detection and treatment · S hared research through presentation, poster, and website · A warded gold medal in synthetic biology competition as part of MIT's team

Jan 2014 - Nov 2014 Cambridge, MA

Undergraduate Researcher in Ploegh Lab (Whitehead Institute) · G enerated and purified VHH fragments against glycolytic enzymes · A ssayed effects of VHH fragments on enolase & pyruvate decarboxylase function

Sep 2013 - Jan 2014 Cambridge, MA

Summer School in Radiobiology (SCK-CEN) · S tudied cancer pathology, radiation treatment, and space microbiology

Jul 2013 Mol, Belgium

SKILLS
Laboratory Techniques : Cloning, SDS-PAGE/Western blot, mammalian tissue culture, transient transfection, protein purification

Programming : Familiarity with MATLAB, Python, and Java

Languages : English (native), French (fluent), Spanish (fluent), German (basic), Portuguese (basic)
LEADERSHIP & SERVICE
Stop Our Silence President (2015-2016), Co-President (2014-2015), Treasurer (2013-2014) · O rganize slam poetry events and theatrical productions to promote sexual assault awareness · R aise over $1000 yearly for local women's shelter

Freshman Associate Advisor (2013-2014, 2015-2016) · A dvise first-year students in biology-focused seminar

Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) Mentor (2013-2014) · M entored high school girls in monthly sessions on topics in science and engineering

Member of Alpha Chi Omega (2014-Present)

Masters Resume Sample

Environment St. Cambridge, MA 02139

Student Enviro Eng

Phone: 617-xxx-xxxx Email: EnviroEng@mit.edu

EDUCATION

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) ­ Cambridge, MA

Master of Engineering in Enviromental Engineering

2014 (expected)

· R elevant Coursework: Strategies for Sustainable Business, Systems Dynamics, Sustainable Energy, Applications of

Technology in Energy and the Environment, Design for Sustainability

Cornell University ­ Ithaca, NY

Bachelor of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering

2010

· G PA 3.57/4.00 (Cum Laude), Chi Epsilon Honors Society

· S emester Abroad, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia, 2004

· R elevant Coursework: Engineers for a Sustainable World, Sustainable Small-Scale Water Supplies, Solving

Environmental Problems for Urban Regions

EXPERIENCE

Camp Dresser & McKee (CDM) ­ Cambridge, MA

Environmental Engineer

2010-2012

Harvard University Allston Campus

· D elivered sustainable technology assessment to compliment the campus's low-carbon design strategy. Presented

findings to 50 employees through teleconference.

· M anaged the design development of the utility system; wrote 4 chapters of 13 chapter report. Coordinated submittal

of design report and associated CAD drawings.

· F acilitated a multi-discipline (6), multi-consultant (15) project team; led client, agency and subcontractor

communications; developed technical reports and $300,000 budget; managed staff of lower grade levels.

· T echnical lead for the evaluation of on-site deep heat geothermal energy; performed a cost analysis and carbon

inventory. Wrote 5 of 8 chapters of the feasibility report.

· O ne of 15 chosen from 4,000 employees to be featured in the company's annual report.

Sustainable Wastewater Treatment Plant Design

· S ecured a Massachusetts Technology Collaborative (MTC) grant for the feasibility of converting fats, oils and

greases to biofuels to jointly reduce a sewer system nuisance and the plant's reliance on fossil fuels.

· E valuated sustainable features for a wastewater treatment plant upgrade including an assessment of stormwater

management, green building design and construction, and potential energy technologies targeted to reduce

operating costs. Recommendations included in 30% project design submittal.

City of Salem Water Conservation Planning

· D eveloped water conservation recommendations and a comprehensive implementation plan for the city's

Engineering Department.

· R ecommendations embraced by the City Mayor. Presented findings to the community at a televised public meeting.

Sulabyia, Kuwait Wastewater Treatment Plant

· E valuated the potential for innovative disposal options for reverse osmosis waste brine at the Sulabyia, Kuwait

wastewater treatment plant.

· S pecifically evaluated options for wetland treatment, saline farming, irrigation of turf fields, bioreactor landfill

water source, phosphorus recovery, and deep well injection.

Engineers for a Sustainable World ­ Ithaca, NY/La 34, Honduras

Project Team Member

2009-2010

· D esigned a water treatment plant for the small village of La 34, a farming community of approximately 100

families near the northwest coast of Honduras.

· T rained community members to self-sufficiently run the water treatment plant; plant is still operating successfully.

Cornell University ­ Ithaca, NY

Teaching Assistant/Laboratory Assistant

2009-2010

· H elped 40 students design, build and automate miniature water treatment plants using LabVIEW software.

· F acilitated a fluid mechanics laboratory including the setup and supervision of hydraulic experiments.

University of Southern California/Camp Dresser & McKee (CDM) ­ Los Angeles, CA

Sustainable Cities Undergraduate Fellow

2010

· W orked with diverse team of students, academic and professionals to incorporate urban sustainability into the

development of a rapidly expanding Los Angeles School District school system.

· R ecommended sustainable features adopted in a prototype environmental impact report.

CERTIFICATIONS AND SKILLS

· Engineer in Training, April 2010 · H ydraulic calculations using MathCAD

· E ligible for Professional Engineering Licensing Exam in 2014 · W ater Distribution Modeling using H2OMap Water

Masters Resume Sample

Charles Meng
100 Charles St., Cambridge, MA 02139  617.123.4567  csmeng@mit.edu  csmeng.github.io

EDUCATION

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Cambridge, MA

Candidate for Master of Engineering in Computer Science; GPA: 5.0/5.0

Expected June 2015

Bachelor of Science in Computer Science; GPA: 4.6/5.0

June 2014

· C oncentration: Human-Computer Interaction

· M aster's Thesis: "Search Tools for Scaling Expert Code Review to the Global Classroom"

· R elevant Coursework: User Interface Design, Computer Graphics, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Performance Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Principles and Practices of Assistive Technologies, Entrepreneurship Project, Computer Vision, Evaluating Education

EXPERIENCE

User Interface Design Group; CSAIL, MIT

Cambridge, MA

Researcher

Oct. 2013­Present

· D esigning search tools to allow teachers to give qualitative feedback beyond "correct" or "incorrect" to tens of

thousands of students' code submissions.

· B uilding a search engine to increase efficiency of writing feedback to individual students.

· D eveloping techniques to cluster student code so teachers may powergrade multiple students' code at once.

Assistive Technologies; MIT

Cambridge, MA

Student leader

Feb. 2014­Present

· M entoring students in an MIT undergraduate course in which teams design and build assistive software,

hardware, or mechanical devices for an individual in the community living with a disability.

· F ounding member of MIT's first assistive technology hackathon, a two-day event based upon the MIT course.

Recruited five clients in the greater Boston area.

Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; MIT Teaching assistant to class of over 500 students · M anage lab assistants. Lectured to over 100 MIT undergraduates at a review session.

Cambridge, MA Feb. 2014­Present

Middle East Education Through Technology (MEET)

Jerusalem, Israel

Curriculum developer

May­July 2014

· D eveloped a 3-week curriculum to teach Israeli and Palestinian high-schoolers web programming and Django.

MIT International Science and Technology Initiative

Querétaro, Mexico

Curriculum developer and instructor

June­July 2013

· E stablished a new computer education class tailored to Mexican street children, independently developed

curriculum, and taught class in Spanish.

The Server Labs Software engineering intern · C reated a user interface to facilitate clients setting up a cloud-based virtual environment. · P resented project in Spanish before a group of cloud computing professionals.

Madrid, Spain June­Aug. 2012

Affective Computing; Media Lab, MIT

Cambridge, MA

Undergraduate researcher

June­Dec. 2011

· Introduced a user interface for CardioCam, a low-cost and non-contact technology that calculates heart rate and

blood pressure using only webcam imagery.

SKILLS AND INTERESTS
· D jango, WebDev Langugages (HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery), Python, C++, Java, MATLAB · G roup leader for MIT Varsity Track and Field pole vaulters ·Spanish  Hebrew  Pole vaulting  Gymnastics  Travel  Music

Masters Resume Sample

77 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02139

Joe Resume

Phone: 617-253-XXXX Email: XXX@mit.edu

EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA Masters of Science in Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering

GPA: 5.0/5.0

2013 (expected)

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, India

Bachelor of Technology, Mechanical Engineering

GPA: 9.5/10.0

· C lass Rank 1. (Summa cum Laude) ­ secured a gold medal and three silver medals for overall excellence.

·Published paper on manufacturing process control-Intl. Journal of Manufacturing Technology and Management

· S tandardized Test Score: GRE ­ Verbal: 720/800, Quantitative: 800/800.

2010

RELEVANT SKILLS
SoftwareExcel spreadsheets including Sensitivity Analysis, Monte Carlo simulation, and modeling uncertainties; C, C++, Matlab, Saphire (probabilistic analysis tool) MS Word and MS PowerPoint.
CoursesCoursework covering fundamentals of finance, economics, statistics, risk-benefit and decision analysis, Options in engineering, and engineering math.
ProjectsSimulated stock prices using Hidden-Markov-Models (Course - Statistics); researched system design optimization techniques as part of a course portfolio (Course - Engineering Options).

EXPERIENCE

Osio Corporation, Boston, MA

Business Intern

2011 ­ Present

· Developed Excel spreadsheet model for valuation of the start-up's revenue prospects over the next ten years.

· Collaborated with management team in researching and identifying market segments for the new product.

· Currently working on evaluating strategies to be adopted for market deployment and future expansion.

X Corporation, City, State

Part-time Consultant

2011

· Optimized and redesigned the system to reduce manufacturing costs by 40% and system size by 20%.

·Appraised final results of analysis to senior management at the client site and at MIT. Conducted weekly client update

sessions

Center for Product Design, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India Intern for Program in Teaching Innovation
· Deliberated with professors and fellow students on issues concerning barriers to student learning. · Identified and specified strategies aimed at teaching innovations and translated them into actionable objectives. · Implemented a key objective by developing a flexible teaching tool for an advanced graduate course.

2010

Bharat Electronics Limited, Bangalore, India Technical Analyst
· Analyzed a structural component and identified its critical design parameters. · Redesigned and optimized the component.

2009

LEADERSHIP
· Chief Course Coordinator, MIT ­ Formulated the syllabus and developed the course content for an undergraduate design engineering course. Organized lectures and led undergraduate assistants in conducting lab tutorials for 200 undergraduate students..
· Innovative Teaching, MIT: Formulated new teaching approaches as part of an HP sponsored focus-group trial. · C ommunity Service Officer, MIT ­ Planned and organized community events for fostering greater interactions amongst
graduate students. Received Outstanding Officer Award for organizational excellence. · C irculation Manager and News Reporter, Graduate Student News Magazine, MIT: Managed monthly distribution of
5000 copies of magazine on MIT campus. Popularized Cryptic Crosswords at MIT. · Mentor, IIT Madras ­ Mentored 15 freshmen during the senior year at IIT Madras.

INTERESTS AND ACTIVITIES Story-Telling Cryptic-Crosswords Teaching Innovations  News Reporting TennisPiano

HONORS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Government of India Fellowship (2006-2010)  Certificates of distinction for National Math, Physics and Chemistry Olympiads  Summa Cum Laude in high school  Ranked in top 0.3% for IITs

PhD Resume Sample

Jean Upeg

Political Economy Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139

Phone: 617-xxx-xxxx · Eamil: Upeg@mit.edu

Education
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA Candidate for PhD in Urban Political Economy and Governance
Dissertation: out of Control? Local Democracy Failure and Fiscal Control Boards

Fall 2013

Princeton University, Princeton, NJ B.S.E., Civil Engineering with Architecture, summa cum laude

2006

Experience

Community Innovators Lab, MIT, Cambridge, MA

2011-current

Project Manager, "Innovation and Equity Transform America:; Research Assistant

·Authored federal taxation memo, coordinated authors, and wrote abstracts for memos to the Presidential Transition Team.

·Drafted grant proposals and policy memos. Participated in designing a model for equitable and comprehensive green retrofits.

Currently collaborating with local and national labor and community groups on implementation.

Department of Urban Studies and Planning, MIT, Cambridge, MA

2007-2011

Teaching Assistant

·Conducted seminars, graded essays, and contributed to curriculum design. Classes taught totaled over 200 students and comprised

a doctoral research seminar, undergraduate policy course, and three masters planning courses. Conceived and taught graduate

mini-seminar.

Brookings Institution, Washington, DC

2010-2011

Brookings Research Fellow

·Awarded first pre-doctoral fellowship for dissertation research granted by the Metropolitan Policy Program.

·Created a dataset compiled from government sources on municipal finances and socioeconomics. Programmed rare-events

regressions to measure the impact of fiscal control boards in small cities. Performed qualitative case studies on the control boards

of Miami and Washington, DC through interviews with key actors, archival research, and evaluating financial reports.

·Presented at two national academic conferences for Political Science (7,200 attendees) and Planning (1,000 attendees)

P3 Planning Practice Project, MIT, Cambridge, MA

2009-2010

Research Assistant

·Researched four medium-size cities and their innovative community planning organization. Profiled planners of small cities using

national survey data. Created and maintained the project website.

Urban Institute, Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, Washington, DC

2007-2009

Research Associate II; Research Assistant

·Analyzed tax policy using statistical programs (SAS and Stata), with a focus on the distributional impact of national legislation, the

interaction of tax policies and valuation of fringe benefits, and state code relevant to low-income residents.

·Designed, launched, and maintained the Tax Policy Center website for press, policymakers, and researchers. Website received over

12,500 hits per day and was praised by Forbes, National Journal, and Business Week.

New York City Nonprofits Project, New York, NY Research Assistant
·Developed a strategy to determine the economic impact of the non-profit sector on the city.

2005-2006

Professor Julian Wolpert, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ

2005

Research Assistant

·Wrote a memo detailing the spillover effects of non-profits and value of non-profit tax exemption, focused on Philadelphia.

Fellowships and Awards
National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow, 3 years (2009-2012); MIT Presidential Graduate Fellow and Department Fellowship, 3 years (2009-2012); civil and Environmental Engineering Book Award and David W. Carmichael Prize, Princeton (2006).

Professional and Public Service
Student representative, PhD Committee, Department of Urban Studies and Planning, MIT (2009-2011); Graduate Resident Tutor, MIT (2010-2011); High school tutor, Maya Angelou Public Charter School, Washington, DC (2010-2011); Tax preparer for low income households, Community Tax Aid (2008) and Lincoln Park Baptist Church (2008); Washington, DC.

Publications and Conferences
2 first author; 10 co-author; 2 conference presentations; 1 first author manuscript under review (refereed).

PhD Resume Sample

Mechanical Engineer
1177 Mass Ave. · Cambridge, MA 02139 · Phone: 617-111-2222 · Email: mecheng.edu

SUMMARY
Extensive experience with applying analytical and numerical methods (such as the finite element method) to model a broad range of systems from molecular structures to large-scale mechanical structures. Proven track record of creating and improving new computational methods to perform dynamic and static analysis of otherwise intractable engineering and biological systems. Strong ability to collaborate and work in a team environment on multi-disciplinary projects. Legally authorized to work in the United States (Green Card holder).

EDUCATION

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA, USA

2011

Ph.D., Department of Mechanical Engineering.

· T hesis: "Contributions to the analysis of proteins" under the supervision of Prof. Jones and Prof. Smith

· G PA: 5.0/5.0 (Awarded an A+ grade for all courses. Only one or two people in each course get A+.)

Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, IRAN M.Sc., Department of Mechanical Engineering.
· T hesis: "Online control of needle injection into soft tissue using the finite element method" · G PA: 18.62/20.0 (Ranked in top 5%)

2005

University of Tehran, Tehran, IRAN B.Sc., Department of Mechanical Engineering.
· G PA: 17.68/20.0 (Class Rank: 2)

2003

SKILLS
· Computer: Commercial finite element software programs: ADINA (founded and owned by my Ph.D. and postdoctoral advisor, Prof. KJ Bathe), ABAQUS, ANSYS; MeshLab (a mesh processing program); MATLAB; Fortran; AutoCAD; molecular viewers: PyMOL, VMD, UCSF Chimera; CHARMM (a molecular dynamics program); Adobe Illustrator.
· Analytical: Finite element method; optimization; stochastic simulation: Langevin and Brownian dynamics simulation; statistical analysis; multi-scale modeling; atomistic modeling; continuum modeling; bioinformatics; biomechanics; computational biology; molecular biology; biophysics; solid mechanics; fluid mechanics; controls.
· Language: English (fluent); Persian (native); Arabic (basic).

EXPERIENCE

Department of Mechanical Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA Postdoctoral Associate

Oct. 2011­current

· L ed project team that developed a coarse-grained finite element framework for the Brownian dynamics of macromolecular proteins that are inaccessible to available molecular dynamics algorithms.
· C reated a model to calculate the diffusion coefficients and Brownian dynamics of DNA origami structures as part of a project in collaboration with researchers from MIT, Harvard, University of Michigan, Arizona State University, and Max Planck Institute. No other models are currently available.
· M ember of team that developed a coarse-grained three-dimensional hydrodynamic model of semi-flexible filaments that resulted in several orders-of-magnitude reduction in computational cost.
· C ollaborated with other engineers to improve a well-known implicit time-integration scheme that is widely used in engineering problems and in numerous commercial software tools. The improved version of the scheme has already been implemented in ADINA.

Department of Mechanical Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA Research Assistant

Jan. 2007­Jun. 2011

· Improved a widely used eigenvalue solver to substantially reduce the computational cost of calculating the eigen-solutions of large-scale engineering and bioengineering systems. The improved version of the eigenvalue solver is currently used in ADINA.
· M ade novel discoveries into the shape and function of complex proteins, the results of which have been included in comprehensive government and research databases (such as the Protein Data Bank) and utilized by leading research companies.
· D eveloped a coarse-grained finite element framework for the diffusion coefficients of proteins.

Department of Mechanical Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA

Fall 2007, Fall 2008, Fall 2010

Teaching Assistant, "Finite Element Analysis of Solids and Fluids I" & "Mechanics and Materials I"

· P repared and presented lectures and recitations, supported term projects, helped students with course materials, and graded homework and

Mechanical Engineer

pg. 2

Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA Teaching Assistant, "Thermodynamics I"
· C ontributed to designing experiments for a new thermodynamics laboratory.

Fall 2006

ITCEN Co. (Industrial & Technical Consulting Engineers Company), Tehran, IRAN Mar. 2006­Sept. 2006 Senior Engineer
· D esigned the layout of production lines for a pipe manufacturer.

Department of Mechanical Engineering, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, IRAN Sept. 2003­Dec. 2005 Research Assistant
· P erformed compression tests on bovine liver and characterized its material properties using the genetic algorithm and the finite element method. Developed an algorithm to obtain the optimal path initiation for the needle insertion into bovine liver for biopsy and brachytherapy purposes.

SAPCO Co. (Supplying Automotive Parts Company), Tehran, IRAN Intern

Summer 2001; Summer 2002

· A nalyzed newly designed and produced automotive parts using mechanical tests such as Engine Test, Material Strength Test, etc.

HONORS AND AWARDS

MIT Outstanding Graduate Student Institute Award (2010). This award was given to the top two graduate students at the Department of Mechanical Engineering at MIT. The department has more than 500 graduate students; NSF Fellowship for the GEM4-2010 program (2010); Highly Distinguished Student of University of Tehran (1999­2003): A student who is in top 0.05% (out of ~500,000 applicants) in the nation-wide university entrance exam and his/her semester GPAs are above 17 out of 20.

JOURNAL PUBLICATIONS

Mech Eng et al., "Three-dimensional implicit hydrodynamic model of semi-flexible filaments", in preparation.
Mech Eng et al., "Diffusion coefficients of DNA origami structures", in preparation.
Mech Eng et al., "Brownian dynamics simulation of DNA origami structures", in preparation.
Mech Eng et al., "A finite element framework for Brownian dynamics simulation of proteins", in preparation.
Mech Eng, A. A. Fedorov, E. V. Fedorov, S. Ono, F. Matsumura, S. C. Almo, & M. Bathe, "Structure, evolutionary conservation, and conformational dynamics of Homo sapiens fascin-1, an F-actin crosslinking protein", Journal of Molecular Biology, 400 (2010), pp. 589-604.
Mech Eng, M. T. Ahmadian, & F. Janabi-Sharifi, "Modeling, simulation, and optimal initiation planning for needle insertion into the liver", Journal of Biomechanical Engineering-Transactions of the ASME, 132 (2010), p. 041001 (11 pages).
Mech Eng, M. Bathe, & K. J. Bathe, "The subspace iteration method in protein normal mode analysis", Journal of Computational Chemistry, 31 (2010), pp. 66-74.
M. T. Ahmadian, Mech Eng, & R. Abdollahpour, "A nonlinear viscoelastic modeling of brain and CSF deformation under tumor expansion", International Journal of Scientific Research, 16 (2006), pp. 425-428.
M. T. Ahmadian, Mech Eng R. Abdollahpour, S. Sharifi Sedeh, & K. Navi, "Application of car active suspension in vertical acceleration reduction of vehicle due to road excitation and its effect on human health", International Journal of Scientific Research, 16 (2006), pp. 429-434.
M. T. Ahmadian, R. Abdollahpour, & Mech Eng, "Effect of tumor location and its growth on stress distribution in the brain", International Journal of Scientific Research, 16 (2006), pp. 523-527.

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

3 first-author journal abstracts; 14 conference papers.

ACTIVITIES

· S ports: Soccer; table tennis; swimming; hiking; mountain climbing. · Music: Singing.

PhD Resume Sample

Ph.D. Interested in Consulting
Rm. E39-305, M.I.T., 77 Mass Ave. · Cambridge, MA 02139 · Phone: 617-XXX-XXXX · Email: imastudent@mit.edu

Education

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

Cambridge, MA

C andidate for Ph.D. degree in Material Science & Engineering, June 2014 Used stochastic simulation

techniques to gain new insights into polymer structure. Established collaboration with experimental group in the

Mechanical Engineering Dept. Pursuing unique integrated approach to develop new molecular models better

suited to designing optimal industrial processes. GPA: 4.9/5.0

Minor: Business Administration at the Sloan School of Management, MIT

Business Courses: Management of Innovation and Technology, International Management, Entrepreneurship,

Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Management and Policy in the International Economy, Marketing, Finance

Theory, Options and Derivatives, Investment Banking, Operations Research.

Master of Science in Chemical Engineering Practice, January 2009.

TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY

United Kingdom

Master of Engineering, June 2006

Class Rank: 2

B achelor of Arts with Honors in Natural Science and Chemical Engineering, June 2005 Class Rank: 1

Experience

INDUSTRY INTERNSHIPS

MERCK PHARMACEUTICALS (Summer 2008)

West Point, PA

T eam Leader: Found systematic method to raise glass transition temperature of vaccines. This allowed a

higher storage temperature for the vaccines. Generated $5million annual saving in refrigeration costs.

DOW CHEMICALS (Summer 2007)

Plaquemine, LO

Intern: Wrote software for simulating complex distillation processes, adopted throughout Dow Chemicals.

DOW-CORNING (September-November 2007)

Midland, MI

Team Leader: Removed a bottleneck to allowing doubling of a plant's capacity. $10million capital savings.

U NITED KINGDOM ATOMIC ENERGY AUTHORITY (Summers, 2001-2005)

United Kingdom

Intern:Worked for fluid mechanics groups on technical consulting projects for the petroleum industry.

Frequently delivered presentations to clients. Incorporated new algorithms into pipeline simulation modules

and achieved tenfold increase in speed. Developed strategies to reduce pipeline erosion. Improved reliability

of flowrate measurement devices in oil pipelines to allow clients to better monitor throughputs.

LeadershipMIT PRESIDENT, STUDENT LEADERSHIP COUNCIL OF MATERIAL SCIENTISTS (2011 - present) L eader in group of 200 students that promotes collaboration between five major research universities. Organized videoconferences to allow students to share research ideas. Planning summer retreat to further student collaboration. Investigating ways to promote science and technology in secondary schools and the community.

S TUDENT REPRESENTATIVE, MIT MATERIAL SCIENCE & ENGINEERING DEPT. STUDENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE (2011 - present) Leading student / faculty discussion on ways to enhance student / advisor interaction.

TEACHING ASSISTANT, MIT MATERIAL SCIENCE & ENGINEERING DEPT. (Fall semester 2010) O rganized tutorials to clarify course material. Wrote instruction manual to help students use math software. Class scored 7% higher in final than any of the professor's former classes.

U.K. COORDINATOR, EUROPEAN CLUB CAREER FAIR (2006)

Awards,

Winner of National Science Foundation Poster Competition (1012); Sigma Xi Engineering Research

HonorsHonors Society (2010); Harvey Stern Fellowship, MIT (2009); Fox Prize for Outstanding Performance in

Chemical Engineering, Cambridge University (2006); Verhaydn de Lancy Prize for Outstanding Contribution

to Trinity College (2005); Mobil Prize for Best Performance in Chemical Engineering, Cambridge University

(2005); Senior Scholarship for Outstanding Academic Performance, Trinity College, Cambridge (2004);

Student Scholarship, United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (2002-2006)

Activities

Dancing (MIT Salsa Club), Classical Guitar, MIT Debating Club, MIT European Club Soccer Team

Alum Resume Sample
A.N. ALUM 123 Infinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, analum@alum.mit.edu, 617-XXX-XXXX
SUMMARY Accomplished strategy and finance professional with extensive experience in health care, financial services, energy, and education. Proven track record of improving client and firm performance across a broad range of corporate, not-for-proft, and government organizations. Strong ability to manage senior-level relationships and cross-functional teams.
EXPERIENCE MIT MEDIA LAB, Cambridge, MA, 2012-Present · C o-led development of virtual rehabilitation interface integrating clinical and home-based physical therapy. · Interviewed clinicians to determine key specifications required for effective treatment in home and clinical settings. · C ollaborated on proposal that won $100,000 innovation grant to further develop technology.
XYZ PUBLIC CHARTER SCHOOLS, Washington, DC, 2011 · L ed development and initial launch of performance management system to improve operational and academic
excellence of network of ten schools with over 5,000 students, 500 staff, and $70 million operating budget.
GLOBAL INVESTMENT FIRM, New York, NY and San Francisco, CA, 2009-2011 Senior Associate, Global Analytics · M anaged financial analysis and due diligence for over $2 billion in private equity financing for investment acquisition
targets in transportation, energy, clean technology, and real estate sectors. Negotiated and oversaw contracts and relationships with engineering, real estate, accounting, and investment banking advisory firms. · E valuated strategic market opportunities in clean technology sector, including potential investments in wind turbine technology and carbon markets. Firm subsequently invested in several carbon reduction projects. · D elivered presentations on strategic analysis, financial valuation, and due diligence of potential investments to Board members and senior executives of Babcock & Brown, portfolio companies, and prospective investment targets. · S treamlined investment review process firmwide, resulting in improved financial and risk analysis.
AN INVESTMENT BANK, New York, NY, 2002-2006 U.S. Economist, Associate Director · C ollaborated with retail and institutional investor sales force to increase distribution of U.S. economics research
products that reached hundreds of thousands of clients. Advised large institutional investor clients on U.S. economics forecasts and research products and conducted customized client research. · M anaged launch of new research products from concept to distribution across sales channels. Led writing, production, and distribution of 200-page Data Decoder reference book, successfully positioned as flagship UBS research product · S pearheaded integration of people, processes, and systems between PaineWebber U.S. Economics Team and UBS Global Economics Team following merger. Completed full integration six months prior to all other Research Teams and advised senior management on integration of remaining 150 PaineWebber Analysts.
WORLD BANK, Washington, DC, 2002-2003 Research Analyst, Development Economics Research Group · E valuated capital structure and corporate governance of 4,000 firms in Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and
Thailand before and after 1997 financial crisis to inform policy response. · P repared reports and presentations of survey findings for senior government officials, global business leaders, senior
World Bank officials, and international press. Organized conference in Bangkok for key Asian cabinet ministers and World Bank officials to discuss findings. · D esigned and evaluated randomized trials of education programs across 300 schools in Kenya. Led 10-person team in overhaul of data management process to improve accuracy and analysis of 20,000 student records.
EDUCATION UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, Philadelphia, PA The Wharton School, Master of Business Administration, Major in Finance. August 2008. Graduate School of Education, Master of Science in Education, Major in Educational Leadership. May 2007 · E xtensive experience in strategic planning and business development for organizations including Mastery Charter
Schools, Victory Schools, School District of Philadelphia, and Association for Sustainable Economic Development.
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Cambridge, MA Bachelor of Science, Major in Economics. June 2000. GPA: 4.5/5.0
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION · Computer skills: Competency in Excel financial modeling, Powerpoint, Access, SQL, SAS, Windows, and Mac OS. · Languages: Written and spoken fluency in Spanish. Conversant in Mandarin Chinese. · International experience: Worked in Chile, Peru, Mexico, Thailand, and Kenya. Studies for one year in Chile.

